README.md, before:

# FS22 FlyPathfinding v1.0.0

![Debug visualizing a path that has been generated](https://i.gyazo.com/276cf7af27bb4457710b0a92254b1d4a.jpg)

## Description

This is a set of scripts for Farming Simulator 22, which provides access to the following: 
- 3D octree grid, of static objects, such as buildings.
- A* pathfinding algorithm to pathfind within the game world.
- Catmull-rom using CatmullRomSplineCreator object class.

This is not a standalone mod, this does not do any gameplay functionality except provide some classes for use in other mods.
The version refers only to the Grid classes as the grid is the only thing shared between mods.

## Features

Currently features octree generation, A* pathfinding class and catmull-rom class. 

## Installation

Place the flyPathfinding folder into mod folder's "scripts" folder. 

If debug commands needed then modDesc.xml needs the following input and actions:
And their translation for the actions in the l10n file.
```
<inputBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_PREVIOUS">
  <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_KP_minus" />
 </actionBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_NEXT">
	 <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_KP_plus" />
 </actionBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_ASTAR_SHOW_CLOSEDNODES">
	 <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_c" />
	</actionBinding>
</inputBinding>

<actions>
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_PREVIOUS" />
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_NEXT" />
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_ASTAR_SHOW_CLOSEDNODES" />
</actions>
```

## Usage

You can check if pathfinding is available with the ```FlyPathfinding.bPathfindingEnabled``` and checking if the octree object exists with ``` g_currentMission.gridMap3D ~= nil.```

To check if the octree grid has been generated you can either call ```g_currentMission.gridMap3D:isAvailable()``` which returns a bool. 
Can also bind to the ```g_messageCenter:subscribe(MessageType.GRIDMAP3D_GRID_GENERATED, "your function to call here", "function's self ref here")```

Can create the AStar pathfinding class by ```AStar.new(isServer,isClient)``` and remembering to call ```:register(true)``` on the created object.
Currently the AStar pathfinding can't be queued up with the find function before octree is ready, so need to wait till octree has generated the grid done by like above.

After creating an AStar and making sure the grid is ready, one can start pathfinding using the find function.
```AStar:find(startPosition,goalPosition,findNearest,allowSolidStart,allowSolidGoal,callback,smoothPath,customPathLoopAmount,customSearchNodeLimit)```

- **startPosition** and **goalPosition** are given as tables {x=,y=,z=}

- **findNearest** a bool to indicate if goal wasn't reach to return the nearest found grid node if possible. 

- **allowSolidStart** and **allowSolidGoal** bool to allow start and goal being inside a collision.

- **callback** will be called when path is done, and will contain the path like {array of {x=,y=,z=}, bool reached goal}, returns {nil,false} if did not reach goal and findNearest was false or didn't have a best node.

- **smoothPath** is a bool to indicate if the found path should be smoothed with the included simple method to avoid zigzag pattern.

- **customPathLoopAmount** indicates how many loops per frame to pathfind, if not given uses value from config.xml.

- **customSearchNodeLimit** can limit how many closed nodes will search through before cancelling search, also if not given uses value from config.xml.


Can create a catmull-rom by first creating the ```CatmullRomSplineCreator.new(isServer,isClient)``` and remembering to call ```:register(true)``` on the created object.
Then the CatmullRomSplineCreator object has function:

```CatmullRomSplineCreator:createSpline(points,callback,customStartControlPoint,customEndControlPoint,lastDirection,roundSharpAngles,roundSharpAngleLimit,roundConnectionRadius)```

- **points** is an array of {x=,y=,z=} minimum of 2 points needed to create a spline.
- **callback** is a function to be called after spline is created and gives the created CatmullRomSpline as argument. 
- **customStartControlPoint** and **customEndControlPoint** are optional P0 first segment, and P3 last segment's points given as {x=,y=,z=}.
- **lastDirection** is optional direction that a previous spline was going towards on last segment, if combining two splines without using the combineSplinesAtDistance function.
- **roundSharpAngles** is a bool to indicate if sharp angles beyond the **roundSharpAngleLimit** should be rounded a bit by the **roundConnectionRadius**

Two splines can be combined with the:

```CatmullRomSplineCreator:combineSplinesAtDistance(spline1,spline2,distance,callback,roundSharpAngles,roundSharpAngleLimit,roundConnectionRadius)```

- **spline1** and **spline2** are the splines to be combined the spline2 will be used up and should be nilled and not used anymore. 
- **distance** is the distance at the spline to combine the two splines.
- **callback** is the function which will be called when the splines have been combined, returns the spline1 combined.

The created spline CatmullRomSpline has mainly the function:

```CatmullRomSpline:getSplineInformationAtDistance(distance)```
Which returns the **position**, **forward vector**, **right vector** and **upvector** on the spline at given distance along the spline as tables {x=,y=,z=}.

The mod fully works in multiplayer. 
While in single player the config.xml has the **maxOctreePreLoops** that can be adjusted for example, this affects the speed of creating the octree grid, after loading screen is done and entering game the pre loops will be run and will lag the game for a few seconds depending on the amount of **maxOctreePreLoops**. Helps a minute or so of the generation time while game is fully running, and the **maxOctreeGenerationLoopsPerUpdate** can be also lowered if performance is too low, while generating at the beginning the octree grid. In dedicated servers the octree grid is fully generated when starting the dedicated server.   

The version is configured in the flyPathfinding.lua as ```FlyPathfinding.requiredGridVersion```, and GridMap3D has the function ```GridMap3D:getVersion()``` to check the existing grid's version.
In config/config.xml can be found variables to adjust AStar, CatmullRom performance. 
The grid settings has default values inside the .zip in config/config.xml, but after running the script once it creates config.xml in a more easy location for the end-user at modSettings/flyPathfinding/config.xml
As the grid is shared between mods it required to have its settings in a common location.

## Issues

Does not work on modded maps with non-original map size, so larger than 2048, I think it is an issue with the FS22 LUA API's overlapBox collision check function.

Did not see any possiblity to avoid including very thin meshes near terrain like the roads in the octree grid as solid, could cut some generation time by a good solution.

## Changelog

1.0.0 initial release.

Commit message:

Updated to 1.0.1, with astar bug fixes and grid update fixes, new functions to CatmullRomSpline class.

README.md, after:

# FS22 FlyPathfinding v1.0.1

![Debug visualizing a path that has been generated](https://i.gyazo.com/276cf7af27bb4457710b0a92254b1d4a.jpg)

## Description

This is a set of scripts for Farming Simulator 22, which provides access to the following: 
- 3D octree grid, of static objects, such as buildings.
- A* pathfinding algorithm to pathfind within the game world.
- Catmull-rom using CatmullRomSplineCreator object class.

This is not a standalone mod, this does not do any gameplay functionality except provide some classes for use in other mods.
The version refers only to the Grid classes as the grid is the only thing shared between mods.

## Features

Currently features octree generation, A* pathfinding class and catmull-rom class. 

## Installation

Place the flyPathfinding folder into mod folder's "scripts" folder. 
Add the script files included to the modDesc.xml 

If debug commands needed then modDesc.xml needs the following input and actions:
And their translation for the actions in the l10n file.
```
<inputBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_PREVIOUS">
  <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_KP_minus" />
 </actionBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_NEXT">
	 <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_KP_plus" />
 </actionBinding>
 <actionBinding action="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_ASTAR_SHOW_CLOSEDNODES">
	 <binding device="KB_MOUSE_DEFAULT" input="KEY_lctrl KEY_lshift KEY_lalt KEY_c" />
	</actionBinding>
</inputBinding>

<actions>
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_PREVIOUS" />
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_NEXT" />
 <action name="FLYPATHFINDING_DBG_ASTAR_SHOW_CLOSEDNODES" />
</actions>
```
Also for the debug commands a custom name is required in the flyPathfinding.lua.

## Usage

You can check if pathfinding is available with the ```FlyPathfinding.bPathfindingEnabled``` and checking if the octree object exists with ``` g_currentMission.gridMap3D ~= nil.```

To check if the octree grid has been generated you can either call ```g_currentMission.gridMap3D:isAvailable()``` which returns a bool. 
Can also bind to the ```g_messageCenter:subscribe(MessageType.GRIDMAP3D_GRID_GENERATED, "your function to call here", "function's self ref here")```

Can create the AStar pathfinding class by ```AStar.new(isServer,isClient)``` and remembering to call ```:register(true)``` on the created object.
Currently the AStar pathfinding can't be queued up with the find function before octree is ready, so need to wait till octree has generated the grid done by like above.

After creating an AStar and making sure the grid is ready, one can start pathfinding using the find function.
```AStar:find(startPosition,goalPosition,findNearest,allowSolidStart,allowSolidGoal,callback,smoothPath,customPathLoopAmount,customSearchNodeLimit)```

- **startPosition** and **goalPosition** are given as tables {x=,y=,z=}

- **findNearest** a bool to indicate if goal wasn't reach to return the nearest found grid node if possible. 

- **allowSolidStart** and **allowSolidGoal** bool to allow start and goal being inside a collision.

- **callback** will be called when path is done, and will contain the path like {array of {x=,y=,z=}, bool reached goal}, returns {nil,false} if did not reach goal and findNearest was false or didn't have a best node.

- **smoothPath** is a bool to indicate if the found path should be smoothed with the included simple method to avoid zigzag pattern.

- **customPathLoopAmount** indicates how many loops per frame to pathfind, if not given uses value from config.xml.

- **customSearchNodeLimit** can limit how many closed nodes will search through before cancelling search, also if not given uses value from config.xml.


Can create a catmull-rom by first creating the ```CatmullRomSplineCreator.new(isServer,isClient)``` and remembering to call ```:register(true)``` on the created object.
Then the CatmullRomSplineCreator object has function:

```CatmullRomSplineCreator:createSpline(points,callback,customStartControlPoint,customEndControlPoint,lastDirection,roundSharpAngles,roundSharpAngleLimit,roundConnectionRadius)```

- **points** is an array of {x=,y=,z=} minimum of 2 points needed to create a spline.
- **callback** is a function to be called after spline is created and gives the created CatmullRomSpline as argument. 
- **customStartControlPoint** and **customEndControlPoint** are optional P0 first segment, and P3 last segment's points given as {x=,y=,z=}.
- **lastDirection** is optional direction that a previous spline was going towards on last segment, if combining two splines without using the combineSplinesAtDistance function.
- **roundSharpAngles** is a bool to indicate if sharp angles beyond the **roundSharpAngleLimit** should be rounded a bit by the **roundConnectionRadius**

Two splines can be combined with the:

```CatmullRomSplineCreator:combineSplinesAtDistance(spline1,spline2,distance,callback,roundSharpAngles,roundSharpAngleLimit,roundConnectionRadius)```

- **spline1** and **spline2** are the splines to be combined the spline2 will be used up and should be nilled and not used anymore. 
- **distance** is the distance at the spline to combine the two splines.
- **callback** is the function which will be called when the splines have been combined, returns the spline1 combined.

The created spline CatmullRomSpline has mainly the function:

```CatmullRomSpline:getSplineInformationAtDistance(distance)```
Which returns the **position**, **forward vector**, **right vector** and **upvector** on the spline at given distance along the spline as tables {x=,y=,z=}.

The mod fully works in multiplayer. 
While in single player the config.xml has the **maxOctreePreLoops** that can be adjusted for example, this affects the speed of creating the octree grid, after loading screen is done and entering game the pre loops will be run and will lag the game for a few seconds depending on the amount of **maxOctreePreLoops**. Helps a minute or so of the generation time while game is fully running, and the **maxOctreeGenerationLoopsPerUpdate** can be also lowered if performance is too low, while generating at the beginning the octree grid. In dedicated servers the octree grid is fully generated when starting the dedicated server.   

The version is configured in the flyPathfinding.lua as ```FlyPathfinding.requiredGridVersion```, and GridMap3D has the function ```GridMap3D:getVersion()``` to check the existing grid's version.
In config/config.xml can be found variables to adjust AStar, CatmullRom performance. 
The grid settings has default values inside the .zip in config/config.xml, but after running the script once it creates config.xml in a more easy location for the end-user at modSettings/flyPathfinding/config.xml
As the grid is shared between mods it required to have its settings in a common location.

## Issues

Does not work on modded maps with non-original map size, so larger than 2048, I think it is an issue with the FS22 LUA API's overlapBox collision check function.

Did not see any possiblity to avoid including very thin meshes near terrain like the roads in the octree grid as solid, could cut some generation time by a good solution.

## Changelog

1.0.1
- fixed bugs with AStar class, and grid update function. 
- small other improvements and cleanup. 
- added new functions to CatmullRomSpline class used for proper steering along the spline. 


1.0.0 initial release.
